[[gridftp-api-summary]]
== API Summary ==
indexterm:[API information for GridFTP]


=== Programming Model Overview ===

The Globus FTP Client library provides a convenient way of accessing
files on remote FTP servers. In addition to supporting the basic FTP
protocol, the FTP Client library supports several security and
performance extensions to make FTP more suitable for Grid applications.
These extensions are described in the
http://www.globus.org/alliance/publications/papers/GFD-R.0201.pdf[GridFTP
Protocol document].

In addition to protocol support for grid applications, the FTP Client
library provides a
http://www.globus.org/api/c-globus-6.0/globus%5fftp%5fclient/html/group%5f%5fglobus%5f%5fftp%5f%5fclient%5f%5fplugins.html[plugin
architecture] for installing application or grid-specific fault recovery
and performance tuning algorithms within the library. Application
writers may then target their code toward the FTP Client library and, by
simply enabling the appropriate plugins, easily tune their application
to run it on a different grid.

All applications which use the Globus FTP Client API must include the
header file ++globus_ftp_client.h++ and activate the  and activate the
http://www.globus.org/api/c-globus-{$version}/globus%5fftp%5fclient/html/group%5f%5fglobus%5f%5fftp%5f%5fclient%5f%5factivation.html[GLOBUS_FTP_CLIENT_MODULE].

To use the Globus FTP Client API, one must create an
http://www.globus.org/api/c-globus-{$version}/globus%5fftp%5fclient/html/group%5f%5fglobus%5f%5fftp%5f%5fclient%5f%5fhandle.html[FTP
Client handle]. This structure contains: 

* context information about FTP operations which are being executed,

* a cache of FTP control and data connections, and

* information about plugins which are being used.


The specifics of the connection caching and plugins are found in the
"http://www.globus.org/api/c-globus-{$version}/globus%5fftp%5fclient/html/group%5f%5fglobus%5f%5fftp%5f%5fclient%5f%5fhandleattr.html[Handle
Attributes]" section of the API documentation.

Once the handle is created, one may begin transferring files or doing
other FTP operations by calling the functions in the
"http://www.globus.org/api/c-globus-{$version}/globus%5fftp%5fclient/html/group%5f%5fglobus%5f%5fftp%5f%5fclient%5f%5foperations.html[FTP
Operations]" section of the API documentation. In addition to whole-file
transfers, the API supports partial file transfers, restarting transfers
from a known point, and various FTP directory management commands. All
FTP operations may have a set of attributes, defined in the
operationattr section, associated with them to tune various FTP
parameters. The data structures and functions needed to restart a file
transfer are described in the
"http://www.globus.org/api/c-globus-{$version}/globus%5fftp%5fclient/html/group%5f%5fglobus%5f%5fftp%5f%5fclient%5f%5frestart%5f%5fmarker.html[Restart
Markers]" section of the API documentation. For operations which require
the user to send to or receive data from an FTP server they must call
the functions described in the "globus_ftp_client_data" section of the
manual.

The globus_ftp_control library provides low-level services needed to
implement FTP clients and servers. The API provided is protocol
specific. The data transfer portion of this API provides support for the
standard data methods described in the FTP Specification as well as
extensions for parallel, striped, and partial data transfer. 


=== Component API ===




* http://www.globus.org/api/c-globus-{$version}/globus%5fftp%5fclient/html/index.html[C Client Library API]

* http://www.globus.org/api/c-globus-{$version}/globus%5fftp%5fcontrol/html/index.html[C Control Library API]


For information on the internationalization API, see
link:../../ccommonlib/pi/index.html#ccommonlib-apis[C Common Libraries API]. 

