
[[gsicDeveloper,Developer's Guide]]
:doctype: book
= GT 6.0 GSI C: Developer's Guide =

  
[[gsic-developer-introduction]]

.Introduction
--
This component provides an API for authentication and two APIs for
authorization.
The authentication API is an implementation of the GSS-API (RFC 2743 and
RFC 2744) extended with the functions described in the GSS-API
Extensions document.
On the authorization front there is a coarse-grained API, which in
addition to authorizing also provides a mapping function, and an API
that allows finer grained authorization decisions to be made. The finer
grained API follows the subject, object, action paradigm.
Both of the authorization APIs allow different back end implementations
through the use of dynamic library loading. 

--

  
[[gsic-developer-beforeyoubegin]]
== Before you begin ==


include::../GSIC_Feature_Summary_Frag.txt[]


include::../GSIC_Platform_Summary_Frag.txt[]


include::../GSIC_Compatibility_Summary_Frag.txt[]


include::../GSIC_Dependencies_Summary_Frag.txt[]


include::../GSIC_Security_Considerations_Frag.txt[]

 
[[gsic-developer-scenarios]]
== Usage scenarios ==


--
There is no content available at this time.


--
 
[[gsic-developer-tutorials]]
== Tutorials ==


--
There are no tutorials available at this time


--
 
[[gsic-developer-archdes]]
== Architecture and design overview ==


=== Authentication ===

As mentioned in the introduction, the GSI C security framework uses the
GSSAPI API and extensions to it to abstract security mechanism specific
details. Below the GSSAPI layer there exist multiple APIs for dealing
with credential management, X.509 certificates in general and proxy
certificates in particular as well as security configuration. Each of
these APIs is described in more detail below.

The general design principle guiding these APIs is data encapsulation.
Data structures (handles and attributes) capture and encapsulate the
state of the system. These data structures are then acted upon by
various getters and setters, as well as other functions.


==== The GSS Assist API ====

The GSS Assist API provides helper functions wrapping the process of
security (GSS) context establishment, support for gridmap authorization
and various other helper functions that wrap GSSAPI functions and
capture common usage.


==== GSSAPI ====

The GSSAPI implementation provided by the toolkit is based upon SSL/TLS
with extensions to the standard path validation mechanism to handle
proxy certificates. It relies upon the credential and certificate
utility APIs for general certificate acquisition and inspection
functionality.


==== The Callback API ====

This API provides a callback that can be plugged into the OpenSSL path
validation framework. This callback provides the additions to path
validation required for dealing with proxy certificates and X.509
extensions. Furthermore, it allows applications to inspect data, e.g.
the validated certificate chain, after the validation is done.


==== The Certificate Utilities API ====

The Certificate Utilities API provides helper functions for dealing with
X.509 certificates. This API does not use the "handle" concept mentioned
in the introduction. Rather, it operates on datatypes provided by the
OpenSSL APIs.


==== The Credential API ====

The Credential API deals with reading and writing certificates from and
to the file system and the OpenSSL I/O abstraction layer. It also
provides functions for inspecting and validating the read credentials.


==== The Proxy APIs ====

The Proxy APIs provide a implementation of the X.509 Proxy Certificate
Extension ASN.1 structure as well as functions for creating new proxies.


==== The System Configuration API ====

This API serves as a abstraction layer for OS specific information
needed by the security infrastructure. It provides OS specific functions
for discovering certificates from a set of predefined standard locations
as well as functions for doing the same for various configuration files.


=== Authorization ===

As described in the introduction the GSI C security framework
essentially provides two authorization APIs, the generic Authorization
API and the Gridmap API. These APIs differ in various ways:

The Authorization API provides a framework that allows callouts to 3rd
party authorization solutions, does not provide a default authorization
mechanism and is geared to authorizing the subject-action-object tuple. 

The Gridmap API on the other hand, while allowing for custom callouts to
be plugged in and override the default behavior, provides a default
authorization and mapping mechanism based on the grid map file. Also, it
only furnishes the callouts with information about the entity to be
authorized, i.e. it does not provide information on the action and the
object, so it is somewhat simpler in its approach. Finally, it provides
the ability to map authorized entities to local system entities, e.g.
UNIX user names. More information on the interface used for Gridmap
callouts can be found
link:../GSIAuthorizationCalloutSpecification-04.pdf[here].

 
include::../GSIC_Interface_API_Frag.txt[]

 
include::../GSIC_Interface_Protocol_Frag.txt[]

 
include::../GSIC_Interface_Commandline_Frag.txt[]

 
include::../GSIC_Interface_Config_Frag.txt[]

 
[[gsic-developer-env]]
== Environment variable interface ==


include::../GSIC_Interface_Env_Frag.txt[]

 
[[gsic-developer-debugging]]
== Debugging ==


--
For information about system administrator logs, see
link:../../gsic/admin/index.html#gsic-admin-debugging[Debugging] in the GSI C
Admin Guide.


--
 
[[gsic-developer-troubleshooting]]
== Troubleshooting ==


include::../../Credential_Troubleshooting_Frag.txt[]


include::../../Gridmap_Troubleshooting_Frag.txt[]

 
[[gsic-developer-relateddocs]]
== Related Documentation ==


--


* http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc3820.html[RFC 3820] Proxy Certificates

* http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2744.html[RFC 2744] GSSAPI: C-bindings

* http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2743.html[RFC 2743] GSSAPI

* http://www.ggf.org/documents/GWD-I-E/GFD-E.024.pdf[GSSAPI Extensions]

* http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2246.html[RFC 2246] TLS

* http://www.globus.org/toolkit/docs/3.0/gsi/GSI-message-specification-02.doc[Grid Security Infrastructure Message Specification]




--
  
