[[grid-ca-create]]
= GRID-CA-CREATE(1) =
:doctype: manpage
:man source: University of Chicago

== NAME ==
grid-ca-create - Create a CA to sign certificates for use on a grid

== SYNOPSIS ==
**++grid-ca-create++** [++-help++ ] [++-h++ ] [++-usage++ ] [++-version++ ] [++-versions++ ] 

== Description ==

The **++grid-ca-create++** program creates a self-signed CA certificate
and related files needed to use the CA with other Globus tools. The
**++grid-ca-create++** program prompts for information to use to
generate the CA certificate, but the prompts may be avoided by using the
command line options. 

By default, the **++grid-ca-create++** program creates the self-signed
CA certificate, installs it on the current machine in its trusted
certificate directory, and creates a source tarball which can be used to
generate an RPM package for the CA. If the RPM package is installed on a
machine, users on that machine can create certificate requests for user,
host, or service identity certificates to be signed by the CA
certificate generated by running **++grid-ca-create++**. 

If run as a privileged user, the **++grid-ca-create++** program creates
the CA certificate and support files in
++${localstatedir}/lib/globus/simple_ca++ and the CA certificate and
signing policy are installed in the  and the CA certificate and signing
policy are installed in the ++/etc/grid-security++ directory. Otherwise,
the files are created in the  directory. Otherwise, the files are
created in the ++${HOME}/.globus/simpleCA++ directory.  directory. 

The full set of command-line options to **++grid-ca-create++** follows.
In addition to these, unknown options will be passed to the
**++openssl++** command when creating the self-signed certificate. 

**-help, -h, -usage**::
     Display the command-line options to **++grid-ca-create++** and exit.

**-version, -versions**::
     Display the version number of the **++grid-ca-create++** command. The second form includes more details.

**-force**::
     Overwite existing CA in the destination directory if one exists

**-noint**::
     Run in non-interactive mode. This will choose defaults for parameters or those specified on the command line without prompting. This option also implies '-force'.

**-dir 'DIRECTORY'**::
     Create the CA in 'DIRECTORY'. The 'DIRECTORY' must not exist prior to running **++grid-ca-create++**.

**-subject 'SUBJECT'**::
     Use 'SUBJECT' as the subject name of the self-signed CA to create. If this is not specified on the command-line, **++grid-ca-create++** will default to using the subject name **cn=Globus Simple CA, ou='$HOSTNAME'**.

**-email 'ADDRESS'**::
     Use 'ADDRESS' as the email address of the CA. The default instructions generated by **++grid-ca-create++** tell users to mail the certificate request to this address. If this is not specified on the command-line, **++grid-ca-create++** will default to the ++$LOGNAME++++@++++$HOSTNAME++

**-days 'DAYS'**::
     Set the default lifetime of the self-signed CA certificate to 'DAYS'. If not set, the **++grid-ca-create++** program will default to ++1825++ days (5 years).

**-pass 'PASSWORD'**::
     Use the string 'PASSWORD' to protect the CA's private key. This is useful for automating Simple CA, but may make it easier to compromise the CA if someone obtains a shell on the machine storing the CA's private key.

**-nobuild**::
     Disable building a source tarball for distributing the CA's public information to other machines. The source tarball can be created later by using the **++grid-ca-package++** command.

**-g**::
     Create a binary GPT package containing the new CA's public information. The package will be created in the current working directory. This package can be deployed by with the **++gpt-install++** tool.

**-b**::
     Create a binary GPT package containing the new CA's public information that is backward-compatible with GPT 3.2. Packages created in this manner will work with Globus Toolkit 2.0.0-5.0.x.



== Examples ==

Create a simple CA in ++$HOME/SimpleCA++  

--------
%  grid-ca-create -noint -dir 
 
    C e r t i f i c a t e    A u t h o r i t y    S e t u p
    
    This script will setup a Certificate Authority for signing Globus
    users certificates.  It will also generate a simple CA package
    that can be distributed to the users of the CA.
    
    The CA information about the certificates it distributes will
    be kept in:
    
    /home/juser/SimpleCA
    
    The unique subject name for this CA is:
    
    cn=Globus Simple CA, ou=simpleCA-grid.example.org, ou=GlobusTest, o=Grid
    
    Insufficient permissions to install CA into the trusted certifiicate
    directory (tried ${sysconfdir}/grid-security/certificates and
    ${datadir}/certificates)
    Creating RPM source tarball... done
      globus_simple_ca_0146c503.tar.gz
      
--------



== Environment Variables ==

The following environment variables affect the execution of
**++grid-ca-create++**: 

**++GLOBUS_LOCATION++**::
     Non-standard installation path of the Globus toolkit.



== See Also ==

++grid-cert-request(1)++, ++grid-ca-sign(1)++, ++grid-default-ca(1)++,
++grid-ca-package(1)++

