
[[gsiopensshUser,User's Guide]]
:doctype: book
= GT 6.0 GSI-OpenSSH: User's Guide =

  
[[gsiopenssh-user-introduction]]

.Introduction
--
This is a guide for using the GSI-enabled OpenSSH client. It assumes
that you (or your system administrator) have already installed the GSI
OpenSSH and that you have also acquired a user certificate from an
appropriate Certificate Authority. 

--

  
[[gsiopenssh-user-usagescenarios]]
== Using GSI-OpenSSH ==


[[gsiopenssh-user-create-proxy]]
=== Creating a proxy ===

First, set the GLOBUS_LOCATION environment variable to the location of
your GSI-enabled OpenSSH installation. It may already be set for you by
your system administrator.

Then, create a proxy credential for GSI authentication by running the
**++grid-proxy-init++** program. This is your single sign-on to the
Grid. By default, **++grid-proxy-init++** will create a proxy credential
good for 12 hours. 

To create a proxy credential with a different lifetime, use the
**++-hours++** option.

For example: 

--------
% grid-proxy-init -hours 8
--------



[[gsiopenssh-user-delete-proxy]]
=== Deleting a proxy ===

To delete a proxy that was previously create with grid-proxy-init, run:



--------
% grid-proxy-destroy
--------


[[gsiopenssh-user-authorization]]
=== Getting authorized to connect to a site ===

Before you can connect to a site, the site needs to know the identity in
your certificate so that it can map that identity to your local account.
At a minimum, the site will need to know your subject name from your
certificate. You can get your subject name by running
**++grid-cert-info++** with the **++-subject++** argument. For example: 



--------

% grid-cert-info -subject

--------

Email your subject name to the administrator of the system you wish to
connect to so that they can add your entry to the appropriate
authorization files. 

Once you have your proxy credential, all you should have to do is run
gsissh, providing it with the hostname of the host you want to connect
to. For example: 

--------

% gsissh myhost.somedomain.edu

--------
You should then find yourself automatically logged into your account on
the remote system. If something goes wrong, please see
link:#gsiopenssh-user-troubleshooting[Troubleshooting] for assistance. 

 
include::../Util_OpenSSH_Interface_Commandline_Frag.txt[]

 
[[gsiopenssh-user-troubleshooting]]
== Troubleshooting ==


--
Some common errors are listed below. If you need additional assistance,
please run gsissh with the '-vvv' argument (specifying verbose output)
and send the output to your system administrator for assistance.


--

include::../Util_OpenSSH_Errors_Frag.txt[]


[[gsiopenssh-user-passphrase]]
=== The gsissh command prompts you for a pass phrase when you run it ===

This could mean that you don't have a proxy certificate; try running
**++grid-proxy-init++** and then running gsissh again. It could also
mean that the GSI authentication is failing for some reason and gsissh
is falling back to a different authentication mechanism. Reasons that it
might fail include:




* The host you are connecting to does not have a GSI-enabled OpenSSH server.

* You are not authorized to use GSI authentication to the host. Contact the administrator.


 
[[gsiopenssh-user-debugging]]
== Debugging ==


--
For information about sys admin debugging, see
link:../../gsiopenssh/admin/index.html#gsiopenssh-admin-debugging[Debugging].


--

=== Specifying verbose output ===

If you need additional assistance, please run gsissh with the '-vvv'
argument (specifying verbose output) and send the output to your system
administrator for assistance.

 
include::../Util_OpenSSH_Usage_Statistics_Frag.txt[]

  
