
[[gridftpKey,GridFTP Key Concepts]]
:doctype: book
= GT 6.0 GridFTP Key Concepts =

  
[[gridftp-key-overview]]

.Overview
--
One of the foundational issues in HPC computing is the ability to move
large (multi Gigabyte, and even Terabyte), file-based data sets between
sites. Simple file transfer mechanisms such as FTP and SCP are not
sufficient either from a reliability or performance perspective. GridFTP
extends the standard FTP protocol to provide a high-performance, secure,
reliable protocol for bulk data transfer.

--

  
[[gridftp-key-advantages]]
== GridFTP Protocol ==


--
GridFTP is a protocol defined by Global Grid Forum Recommendation
GFD.020, RFC 959, RFC 2228, RFC 2389, and a draft before the IETF FTP
working group. Key features include: 

* Performance - GridFTP protocol supports using parallel TCP streams and multi-node transfers to achieve high performance.

* Checkpointing - GridFTP protocol requires that the server send restart markers (checkpoint) to the client.

* Third-party transfers - The FTP protocol on which GridFTP is based separates control and data channels, enabling third-party transfers, that is, the transfer of data between two end hosts, mediated by a third host.

* Security - Provides strong security on both control and data channels. Control channel is encrypted by default. Data channel is authenticated by default with optional integrity protection and encryption.




--
 
[[globus-gridftp]]
== Globus Implementation of GridFTP ==


--
The GridFTP protocol provides for the secure, robust, fast and efficient
transfer of (especially bulk) data. The Globus Toolkit provides the most
commonly used implementation of that protocol, though others do exist
(primarily tied to proprietary internal systems). 

The Globus Toolkit provides:


* a server implementation called ++globus-gridftp-server++,

* a scriptable command line client called ++globus-url-copy++, and

* a set of development libraries for custom clients.


While the Globus Toolkit does not provide a client with Graphical User
Interface (GUI), http://www.globusonline.org[Globus Online] provides a
web GUI for GridFTP data movement. 

Globus GridFTP framework implements all the key features of GridFTP
protocol mentioned above. It supports both Grid Security Infrastructure
(GSI) and SSH for securing the data transfer. Unlike sftp, SSH based
GridFTP supports multiple security options on the data channel -
authentication only, authentication and integrity protection, fully
encrypted. Globus implemention of GridFTP is modular and extensibl. XIO
based Globus GridFTP framework makes it easy to plugin alternate
transport protocols. The Data Storage Interface (DSI) allows for easier
integration with various storage systems. We currently have DSIs for
POSIX filesystems (default) and HPSS. Globus GridFTP has been deployed
at thousands of sites with more than 10 million data transfers per day.


--
 
[[gridftp-clients]]
== GridFTP Clients ==


--
http://www.globusonline.org[Globus Online] is the recommended interface
to move data to and from GridFTP servers. Globus Online provides a web
GUI, command line interface and a REST API for GridFTP data movement. It
provides automatic fault recovery and automatic tuning of optimization
parameters to achieve high performance. 

The Globus Toolkit provides a GridFTP client called ++globus-url-copy++,
a command line interface, suitable for scripting. For example, the
following command:

--------
globus-url-copy gsiftp://remote.host.edu/path/to/file file:///path/on/local/host
--------

would transfer a file from a remote host to the locally accessible path
specified in the second URL.

Finally, if you wish to add access to files stored behind GridFTP
servers, or you need custom client functionality, you can use our very
powerful client library to develop custom client functionality.

For more information about GridFTP, see:


* the link:../../gridftp/index.html[documentation].

* http://www.globus.org/alliance/publications/papers/gridftp%5ffinal.pdf[The
  Globus Striped GridFTP Framework and Server]



--
  
