[[myproxyAdmin,System Administrator's Guide]]
= GT 6.0 MyProxy: System Administrator's Guide =
:doctype: book

[[myproxy-admin-introduction]]
== Introduction ==
This guide contains advanced configuration information for system
administrators working with MyProxy. It provides references to
information on procedures typically performed by system administrators,
including installation, configuring, deploying, and testing the
installation.
[IMPORTANT]
This information is in addition to the basic Globus Toolkit prerequisite, overview, installation, security configuration instructions in link:../../admin/install/index.html[Installing GT 6.0]. Read through this guide before continuing!

A typical MyProxy configuration has one dedicated myproxy-server for the
site, with MyProxy clients installed on all systems where other Globus
Toolkit client software is installed.

[[myproxy-admin-installing]]
== Building and Installing ==
--
MyProxy is built and installed as part of a default GT 6.0 installation.
For basic installation instructions, see
link:../../admin/install/index.html[Installing GT 6.0]. No extra installation
steps are
required for this component.

If you wish to install MyProxy without installing the rest of the Globus
Toolkit, follow the instructions in
link:../../admin/install/index.html[Installing GT 6.0] with the following
changes. First,
you do not need Ant, a JDK, or a JDBC database to build only MyProxy.
Second, instead of running "make", run:

--------
globus$ make myproxy
--------

This will install the MyProxy client and server programs. For
client-only installations, simply do not configure or use the installed
server.


--

include::../Cred_Mgmt_MyProxy_Interface_Config_Frag.txt[]

[[myproxy-admin-deploying]]
== Deploying ==


--
A sample SysV-style boot script for MyProxy is installed at
++$GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/etc.init.d.myproxy++. To install on
Linux, copy the file to . To install on Linux, copy the file to
++/etc/rc.d/init.d/myproxy++ and run  and run **++chkconfig --add
myproxy++**. You will need to edit the file to set the
++GLOBUS_LOCATION++ environment variable correctly.  environment
variable correctly.

Alternatively, to run the myproxy server out of inetd or xinetd, you
need to do the following as root:


* Add the entries in ++$GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/etc.services++.modifications to the .modifications to the ++/etc/services++ or  or ++/etc/inet/services++ file. file.

* Add the entries in ++$GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/etc.inetd.conf.modifications++ to  to ++/etc/inetd.conf++ or  or ++/etc/inet/inetd.conf++, or copy , or copy ++$GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/etc.xinetd.myproxy++ to  to ++/etc/xinetd.d/myproxy++. You'll need to modify the paths in the file according to your installation.. You'll need to modify the paths in the file according to your installation.

* Reactivate the inetd (or xinetd). This is typically accomplished by sending the SIGHUP signal to the daemon. Refer to the inetd or xinetd man page for your system.


In addition, an example cron script is provided in
++$GLOBUS_LOCATION/share/myproxy/myproxy.cron++ for removing
expired/revoked credentials from the repository. You will need to edit
the file to set the  for removing expired/revoked credentials from the
repository. You will need to edit the file to set the
++GLOBUS_LOCATION++ environment variable correctly before installing in
(for example)  environment variable correctly before installing in (for
example) ++/etc/cron.hourly++. .


--

[[myproxy-admin-testing]]
== Testing ==


--
To verify your myproxy-server installation and configuration, you can
run the myproxy-server directly from your shell. If using a host
certificate, you will need to run the myproxy-server as root. First,
make sure your Globus environment is setup in your shell. Set the
++GLOBUS_LOCATION++ environment variable to the location of your MyProxy
installation. Then, depending on your shell, run one of the following
commands.  environment variable to the location of your MyProxy
installation. Then, depending on your shell, run one of the following
commands.

For csh shells:


--

***********************************************************************
**++source $GLOBUS_LOCATION/etc/globus-user-env.csh++**

***********************************************************************

--
For sh shells:


--

***********************************************************************
**++. $GLOBUS_LOCATION/etc/globus-user-env.sh++**

***********************************************************************

--
Then, run **++$GLOBUS_LOCATION/sbin/myproxy-server -d++**. The '-d'
argument runs the myproxy-server in debug mode. It will write debugging
messages to the terminal and exit after servicing a single request. You
will need to start it once for each test request. In another shell, you
can run the MyProxy client programs to test the server.

If run without the '-d' argument, the myproxy-server program will start
up and background itself. It accepts connections on TCP port 7512,
forking off a separate child to handle each incoming connection. It logs
information via the syslog service under the daemon facility.


--

[[myproxy-admin-security_considerations]]
== Security Considerations ==


include::../Cred_Mgmt_MyProxy_Security_Considerations_Frag.txt[]


[[myproxy-admin-debugging]]
== Debugging ==


include::../Cred_Mgmt_MyProxy_Logging_Frag.txt[]


== Troubleshooting ==

include::../Cred_Mgmt_MyProxy_Errors_Frag.txt[]

include::../Cred_Mgmt_MyProxy_Usage_Statistics_Frag.txt[]
