[[globus-async]]
== GT 6.0: Asynchronous Event Handling ==


--
The Globus Toolkit contains several APIs written in C for creating grid
applications. Each of these components is built on a coherent
asynchronous event model. This text will introduce and explain the
philosophy behind the model and its basic concepts.


--

[[examples]]
=== Examples ===




* link:#globus-async-example1[Example 1] - Demonstrates basic use of
++globus_callback_register_oneshot()++

* link:#globus-async-example2[Example 2] - An example of
++globus_callback_register_oneshot()++ using condition variables

* link:#globus-async-example3[Example 3] - Game of Craps example
demonstrates a more complex use of the asynchronous event model



[[EventModels]]
=== Event Models ===

The Globus Toolkit uses an **asynchronous event model**. Details of this
model are contained in the remainder of this text but it will be helpful
to take a few examples of other popular models.

Applications existing in event heavy environments, such as graphical
user interfaces (GUIs), IO, or inter-process signaling, must implement
some event model. Events are characterized by changes in the environment
at an undetermined time. There are several different popular models used
to handle such events. We provide examples of them here, and then
describe in detail the asynchronous event model used by the Globus
Toolkit.


==== Blocking Event Model ====

In a blocking API, an event is serviced, delaying all processing in the
current thread of execution until the event completes. This has the
obvious disadvantage that no processing can be done while waiting on the
IO. Typically this is solved by forking additional processes or creating
additional threads to service each event. However, more processes and
more threads make a more resource intensive application. 

**Example: Blocking Event Model**



--------

main()
{
    while(!done)
    {
        ~ other processing ~
        data = ReadData();
        ~ process event ~
    }
}
    
--------


==== Non-blocking Event Model ====

A non-blocking model follows the same in-line procedural model as
blocking except that events are polled for completion. Instead of
blocking all processing until the event completes, the user asks if the
event is complete. If so, the event is processed. If not, other
processing may resume.

**Example: Non-blocking Event Model**



--------

main()
{
    while(!done)
    {
        if(EventIsReady())
        {
            ~ process event ~
        }
        else
        {
            ~ other processing ~
        }
    }
}
    
--------

Unlike the blocking model, this approach allows for simultaneous
processing while waiting for the event. However, it can become
cumbersome as more and more events are added. Further, if there is no
other processing to be done, it results in tight spin loops that use the
CPU simply to poll for events.


==== Asynchronous Event Model ====

The asynchronous approach does not follow the in-line procedure. Instead
events are given handler functions. A user registers for an event with
the system, giving it a handler function. When the event occurs the
system calls the user's handler function. 

**Example: Asynchronous Event Model** 



--------

event_handler()
{
    process event
    register_next_event();
}

main()
{
    ~ other processing ~
    register_event()
    ~ other processing ~
    while(!done)
    {
        wait_for_events();
    }
}
    
--------

Like the non-blocking model, this allows simultaneous event and data
processing. In this model, programs are designed as a series of events
rather than a serial execution of instructions. A programmer registers
events and when they occur the necessary processing is done. Additional
events may then be registered and the program goes back to waiting for
events. This is the approach taken by the Globus Toolkit.


[[CallbackLibrary]]
=== Callback Library ===

The heart of the Globus event model is the callback library. This API
provides a user with functionality for asynchronous time events. In
order to use the API for events, the user must implement a function (the
callback) that is called when the event has occurred and processes it. 

There are two fundamental functions that explain the API: 



--------

globus_result_t
globus_callback_register_oneshot(
    globus_callback_handle_t *          callback_handle,
    const globus_reltime_t *            delay_time,
    globus_callback_func_t              callback_func,
    void *                              callback_user_args);

globus_result_t
globus_poll();

--------

The first function is fairly clear. It registers the callback
++callback_func++ with the system that will be called once the time
specified by ++delay_time++ has expired. 

The more interesting of the two is ++globus_poll()++. Semantically this
function is used to briefly turn control over to the Globus event system
for processing. What this means is that ++globus_poll()++ must be called
often enough for the Globus event system to function. This is recognized
as a rather ambiguous statement. Therefore, a look at what happens with
++globus_poll()++ should assist in explanation. In threaded builds of
Globus this ++globus_poll()++ simply results in a call to
++thread_yield()++ where control can be switched to a background thread
dedicated to event processing. In non-threaded builds, a list of events
is maintained by the system. A call to ++globus_poll()++ finds ready
events in the list and dispatches the associated callback to the user
within the same call stack.

In link:#globus-async-example1[Example 1] a use of these two functions
is displayed. The function ++user_callback++ is registered for execution
after 1 second has elapsed. 

In a non-threaded build, there is a single thread of execution. In the
main loop, the call to ++globus_poll()++ invokes the Globus event
process code. The code checks internal data structures for any ready
events. If found, the user callbacks associated with the events will be
called in the same call stack.

In a threaded build a user would see two threads (possibly more, but for
the sake of clarity two will be used): the main thread that is executing
the loop in ++main()++ and an internal Globus thread that is handling
polling of events. The Globus thread is created when the user calls
++globus_module_activate(GLOBUS_COMMON_MODULE)++. This function must be
called before any API function in the the ++globus_common++ package can
be used. This is another common theme in Globus: all modules must be
activated before use and deactivated when finished. The event thread
polls all events and as they become ready the functions associated with
them are dispatched.

Another important concept to note in this API is the use of the ++void *
user_arg++ parameter. This is a simple but important part of the model.
On registration of an event, a user can pass in a void pointer and this
pointer will be threaded through to their event callback. The pointer
can point to any bit of memory the user likes. Typically it points to
some structure that allows the user to maintain state throughout a
series of event callbacks. This memory is completely managed by the
user, so if the memory is used in the event callback the user needs to
be careful to **not** free the memory until the callback occurs. For a
more complicated example of this see link:#globus-async-example2[Example
2].


[[ThreadAbstraction]]
=== Thread Abstraction ===

The first thing to look at in understanding the Globus event model is
the thread abstraction layer. Globus can be built in a variety of ways
with regard to the underlying thread system. It can be built with
pthreads, win32 threads, or non threaded depending on the user's
preferences and the available packages on the system. All builds present
the same API. This thread API is very much akin to pthreads. If the
reader is not familiar with pthreads, we recommend reading the pthread
manual. The more notable API interface is presented below:



--------

int
globus_thread_create(
    globus_thread_t *           thread,
    globus_threadattr_t *       attr,
    globus_thread_func_t        func,
    void *                      user_arg);

int
globus_mutex_lock(
    globus_mutex_t *            mutex);

int
globus_mutex_unlock(
    globus_mutex_t *            mutex);

int
globus_cond_wait(
    globus_cond_t *             cond,
    globus_mutex_t *            mutex);

int
globus_cond_signal(
    globus_cond_t *             cond);

--------

It is important to note that this is **not** a complete set of necessary
functions to properly use the threaded API. However, for the purposes of
this text, they will serve for an explanation. 




* ++globus_thread_create()++ will start a new thread of execution with a
new call stack running beginning at the parameter ++func++.

* ++globus_mutex_lock()++ and ++globus_mutex_unlock()++ provide mutual
exclusive among threads over critical sections of code.

* ++globus_cond_wait()++ and ++globus_cond_signal()++ provide a means of
thread synchronization.

* ++wait()++ will delay the thread that calls it until some other thread
calls ++signal()++.


In most cases the thread layer abstraction is a very thin pass through
to the underlying thread package. 

The notable exception is the non-threaded build. The Globus Toolkit has
created a non-threaded, semantically equivalent implementation of all
the functions described above (and of most in the pthreads API) with the
exception of ++globus_thread_create()++. In the non-threaded case this
is a no-op. However the model of asynchronous programming used in the
Globus Toolkit, ++globus_thread_create()++ is rarely needed or used.

In the Globus model, the callback code and the thread abstraction are
coupled. link:#globus-async-example2[Example 2] shows how this coupling
works:



. An event is registered in the main thread, then ++globus_cond_wait()++
is called.

. When the event has been processed, the handler is called.

. The handler signals the wait that it may continue, then exits.

. The signal awakens the wait so the main thread may continue.

. The main thread then exits.


In the threaded build, ++globus_cond_wait()++ and
++globus_cond_signal()++ are simple passes through to the underlying
thread packages, and as described previously, a background thread
delivers the event. 

In the non-threaded build, ++globus_cond_wait()++ will call
++globus_poll()++ and the non-threaded polling code takes over. For this
reason, it is often not necessary to call ++globus_poll()++ in
non-threaded builds. ++globus_cond_wait()++ tends to be used often
enough to satisfy the needs of the event system.


[[AsynchronousModel]]
=== Asynchronous Model ===

In many ways, the asynchronous programming model is the most difficult
of the three presented. The blocking model is clearly the easiest,
because everything happens in-line, and when the event function (like a
read or a write) returns, the event has completed and all data is
available. Events in this model are treated just like any other function
call and are therefore easily dealt with by programmers with modest
logic skills.

The non-blocking model is a bit more complicated than blocking, but not
much. The only twist is that a user must check to see if the event
completed and, if so, how much of it completed. This still allows for
in-line processing; it only requires an additional ++if++ statement.
Even when event polling is multiplexed (for example, posix select) the
processing is still inline. The user must add some branches to determine
what event is ready and then process it. The most difficult challenge of
the non-blocking model is making use of the idle time when no events are
ready.

In both non-blocking and blocking, the user has easy, in-line control
over when an event is processed. If there is any logic that must occur
before the event, the user simply needs to complete that processing
before calling either the blocking function or the non-blocking function
which checks for ready events. The asynchronous model removes this
luxury. In the asynchronous model events can occur at any time. This can
complicate the logic of keeping critical sections of code safe. Further
complication is caused by the fact that they come in via their own
handlers. This removes the luxury of maintaining state on the local
stack. Instead all state must be packed into heap allocated structures
which are passed to the callbacks via void * pointers (see the monitor
structure in link:#globus-async-example2[Example 2]).

The upside to the asynchronous model is that it forces cleaner, more
well thought out code. The non-blocking model does not scale well. As
more events are managed, the event processing code becomes unmanageable,
typically resulting in a single function that is far too long and far
too interdependent for practical maintenance. Since users can use local
variables, the tendency is to use many different flags to control state
instead of a clean, well thought out state machine. This is especially
true with software that evolves over time, growing in complexity.

In contrast the asynchronous model scales very well. Every event has a
clean separation of being scoped to a user handler function. All shared
states among events must be encapsulated into a data structure. A side
effect of these two characteristics is that it is easier for a user to
define and follow a state machine then it is to create spaghetti logic
based on many flags.

link:globus-async-example3.html[Example 3] shows a proper use of the
asynchronous model. This example simulates the game of Craps. Craps is a
dice game, the rules of which can be found with a simple web search, but
the following state diagram should explain the rules well enough for
this example.


.State Diagram
--
image::state_diagram.png[scaledwidth="75%",align="center"]
--
link:#globus-async-example3[Example 3] follows this state diagram. In
the example rolls of the dice are considered events. For the sake of
simplicity the example only uses a one shot event and then gets the data
by calling ++random();++ If this were a real world event, the values for
the dice would come in as part of the event function. Notice how each
time the event occurs the state is checked and, if needed, advanced to
the next state. In the main function the program waits until the state
machine comes to the final stage, where it signals the wait and allows
for the program to end.


==== Blocking in Callbacks ====

What happens if an event handler blocks? The correct answer to this
question is: **They never should**. This answer is of course a bit
naive. There will be times when blocking in a callback is the only
solution, and there will be even more times when it is the chosen
solution, albeit the wrong one. Therefore, the Globus Toolkit does have
mechanisms to allow this. That said, a user should make every effort to
find alternative solutions to blocking in event callbacks. If the only
solution is to block in a callback it could be an indication that the
state machine is erroneous. 

If an event callback is going to block, it must call the following
function: ++void globus_thread_blocking_will_block();++ If
++globus_cond_wait()++ is called, this function is implied. 

In the threaded build of Globus there is a background thread that
handles the polling of events and dispatching of the handler functions.
When a handler function blocks, it prevents this process.
++globus_thread_blocking_will_block()++ starts a new thread to handle
event processing and allows the user to take over the current thread
without stopping the processing of other threads. The user must also
call ++globus_poll()++ in order to ensure that event processing
continues. 

This is needed:




* in the threaded case to yield the user's processing thread to the system
event thread.

* in the non threaded case so that the only thread can make a non-blocking
run through of any ready events.



[[Conclusion]]
=== Conclusion ===

The Globus Toolkit is middleware for the grid. Because grid
infrastructure often depends heavily on both push and pull notifications
(remote events), the callback style event handling model the Globus
Toolkit provides is essential. It allows entire APIs within the toolkit
to be designed with asynchronous functions that use the event handling
model. Once an API provides that asynchronous functionality (such as
XIO), software that builds on top of it can leverage this functionality.
This eases the burden of the application programmer, as they need only
to implement a callback function to handle possibly many notification
events efficiently, instead of stopping execution until one is received,
or managing multiple threads. 

In the Globus Toolkit, because of the thread abstraction it provides,
threads are managed by the underlying code base, so that the developer
can be ignorant of using threads but still be able to get their
benefits, simply by specifying a compile time switch. Overall, this
flexibility is quite powerful, which is why we encourage the use of this
model when designing and developing your own software components using
the Globus Toolkit.


=== Further Reading ===
* http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/pthread.h.html[Posix
Threads API]
* https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa365198(v=vs.85).aspx[MSDN: Completion Ports and Thread Pooling]
* http://toolkit.globus.org/api/c-globus-6.0/group%5f%5fglobus%5f%5fcommon.html[Globus Common API]
* http://www.cs.bgu.ac.il/~elhadad/se/events.html[Documentation on
Programming with Events]
