
[[gram5-softenv]]
== SoftEnv Support ==


[[gram5-softenv-overview]]
=== Overview ===

SoftEnv is a system designed to make it easier for users to define what
applications they want to use, and easier for administrators to make
applications available to users. SoftEnv has evolved from the original
implementation called Soft designed at Northeastern University in 1994. 

In some environments, like TeraGrid, it is desirable to make use of
SoftEnv before a job is submitted to leverage the use of an exactly
defined software environment in which the job will run. 


[[gram5-softenv-configure]]
=== Configuring SoftEnv Support ===

Because this feature is very specific and may not be available on many
systems, support for SoftEnv is disabled by default in normal job
submissions. There is a parameter in the JNDI configuration of GRAM5 to
enable SoftEnv support in job submissions. 

SoftEnv support must be enabled on a per-scheduler basis because the
internal mechanisms to support SoftEnv vary between the different types
of schedulers. Currently only the Fork, PBS and LSF schedulers can be
configured to have SoftEnv support enabled (Condor is not yet
supported). 

To enable this feature, set the parameter
'enableDefaultSoftwareEnvironment' in the scheduler specific JNDI
configuration to ++true++. 

For example, to enable SoftEnv support in the Fork scheduler, set the
'enableDefaultSoftwareEnvironment' in
++$GLOBUS_LOCATION/etc/globus_wsrf_gram_Fork/jndi-config.xml++ to  to
++true++. 

Enabled SoftEnv support means that a user's default environment will be
created from his ++.soft++ file before each job submission
automatically. The user does not need to provide extra SoftEnv keys in
the extensions element of a job description. This is not done if the
SoftEnv feature is disabled. 

For more information and examples, please look in the
link:../../gram5/user/index.html#gram5-user-softenv[SoftEnv section of
the User's Guide]. 


[[gram5-softenv-dependency]]
=== Dependencies ===

For the scheduler, Fork SoftEnv needs to be installed on the host in
which the container is running. 

For PBS and LSF, SoftEnv needs to be installed on the hosts where the
jobs are executed. 

