
[[gram5-migrating-gt2]]
== Migrating GRAM from GT2 ==


=== Admin - Migration Guide ===


[[gram5-migrating-gt2-install]]
==== Installation / Deployment Differences ====

In GRAM2, jobs are submitted to a job manager process started by a
Gatekeeper process. In GRAM5, the job submit protocol is the same;
however, all jobs for a particular user and LRM run in the same job
manager process. 


[[gram5-migrating-gt2-security]]
==== Security Differences ====


[[gram5-migrating-gt2-proxies]]
===== Proxies and Delegation =====

In GRAM2, the GRAM client is required to delegate a proxy credential to
the Gatekeeper so that the job manager can send authenticated job state
change messages. Because each job is monitored by a separate job manager
in GRAM2, each job manager has access to a different delegated
credential. In GRAM5, the shared job manager uses the delegated
credential with the latest expiration time as its credential. 

In GRAM2, the client can control the job manager proxy timeout by
setting the value of ++proxy_timeout++ RSL attribute to a time interval
in seconds indicating when the job manager will exit if the proxy is
about to expire. In GRAM5, this is a job manager-wide setting and the
++proxy_timeout++ RSL attribute is ignored. 


[[gram5-migrating-gt2-network]]
==== Network Communication ====

In GRAM2, the standard output and standard error streams of a job may be
sent in near real time to a file server such as the GASS server embedded
in a **++globusrun++** execution. In GRAM5 the same RSL syntax is used
to name output and error stream destinations, but those are not sent
until after the job execution is complete. 

In GRAM2, the job manager implements intra-job communication via DUCT
and task synchronization via DUROC. These features have been dropped in
GRAM5. 

GRAM5 adds various protocol extensions to the GRAM2 protocol. This is
done in a way such that the existing GRAM2 protocol processors will
ignore the extensions to the messages. Details about the protocol and
its extensions can be found in the
link:../../gram5/pi/index.html#gram5-interface-protocol[GRAM5 public
interface document]. 


[[gram5-migrating-gt2-lrmdiff]]
==== LRM Interaction Differences ====

In GRAM2, all file system and LRM interactions occur within a perl
module called by the globus-job-manager-script.pl program.
Scheduler-specific perl modules implement a number of methods which are
used by the job manager: 




* submit

* poll

* cancel

* signal

* make_scratchdir

* remove_scratchdir

* stage_in

* stage_out

* cache_cleanup

* remote_io_file_create

* proxy_relocate

* proxy_update


Only a small set of these script methods are used in the GRAM5
implementation. The subset used is: 

* submit

* signal (called when not using SEG)

* poll (called when not using SEG)

* cancel


Some of the functionality has been moved into the job manager or other
services for performance reasons. 


[[gram5-migrating-gt2-localnode]]
==== Local Node Impact ====

In GRAM2, each job submitted would cause the following processes to be
created: 




* gatekeeper (short lived)

* job manager (lives the duration of the job)

* perl script (short lived 4 or more instances depending on job type)

* perl script poll called periodically


In GRAM5, each job causes the following processes to be created 




* **++globus-gatekeeper++** (short lived)

* **++globus-job-manager++** (short lived for all but one concurrent instance)

* **++globus-job-manager-script++** (up to 5 per lifetime of the job manager)

* **++globus-fork-starter++** (up to 5 per job manager when using the fork LRM and the SEG).


Additionally, there will be a per-scheduler instance of the SEG-related
program, **++globus-job-manager-event-generator++**. 


[[gram5-migrating-gt2-user]]
=== User - Migration Guide ===


[[gram5-migrating-gt2-commandlinetools]]
==== Command Line Tools ====

The **++globusrun++** tool in GRAM2 supports DUROC and MPICH-G jobs.
This feature has been removed in GRAM5, as well as the command-line
options related to it. 


=== Developer - API and RSL Migration Guide ===

The DUROC and DUCT APIs have been removed in GRAM5. 

