
[[x-xio-user-quick-start]]
== Using the Globus XIO API for IO operations within C programs ==


[[x-xio-user-quick-start-Introduction-quick]]
=== Introduction ===

This Guide explains how to use the Globus XIO API for IO operations
within C programs. Since Globus XIO is a simple API it is pretty
straight forward. The best way to become familiar with it is by looking
at an example. See link:../globus_xio_example.c[globus_xio_example.c]. 


[[x-xio-user-quick-start-ActivateGlobus]]
=== Activate Globus ===

Let's examine the case where a user wishes to use Globus XIO for reading
data from a file. As in all globus programs the first thing that must be
done is to activate the globus module. Until activated no globus_xio
function calls can be successfully executed. It is activated with the
following line: 



--------

    globus_module_activate(GLOBUS_XIO_MODULE);

--------


[[x-xio-user-quick-start-LoadDriver]]
=== Load Driver ===

Let's examine the case where a user wishes to use Globus XIO for reading
data. The next step is to load all the drivers needed to complete the IO
operations in which you are interested. The function
globus_xio_load_driver() is used to load a driver. In order to
successfully call this function you must know the name of all the
drivers you wish to load. For this example we only want to load the file
IO driver. The prepackaged file IO driver's name is: "file". This driver
would be loaded with the following code: 



--------

    globus_result_t                     res;
    globus_xio_driver_t                 driver;

    res = globus_xio_driver_load(&driver, "file");

--------

If upon completion of the above function call ++res++ returns
GLOBUS_SUCCESS then the driver was successfully loaded and can be
referenced with the variable "driver". 


[[x-xio-user-quick-start-CreateStack]]
=== Create Stack ===

Now that globus_xio is activated and we have a driver loaded we need to
build a driver stack. In our example the stack is very simple as it
consists of only one driver, the file driver. The stack is established
with the following code (building off of the above code snippets): 



--------

    globus_xio_stack_t              stack;
    
    globus_xio_stack_init(&stack);
    globus_xio_stack_push_driver(stack, driver);


--------


[[x-xio-user-quick-start-OpeningHandle]]
=== Opening Handle ===

Now that the stack is created we can open a handle to the file. There
are two ways that a handle can be opened. The first is a passive open.
An example of this is a TCP listener. The open is performed passively by
waiting for some other entity to act upon it. The second is an active
open. An active open is the opposite of a passive open. The TCP counter
example for this is a connect. The users initiates the open. In our
example we shall be performing an active open. 

Before opening a handle it must be initialized. The following
illustrates initialization for client side handles: 



--------

    globus_xio_handle_t             handle;

    res = globus_xio_handle_create(&handle, stack);

--------

Server side handles are a bit more complicated. First we must introduce
the data structure ++globus_xio_server_t++. This structure shares many
concepts with a TCP listener, mainly that it spawns handles
("connections") as passive open requests are made. If the user wishes to
accept a new connection a call to globus_xio_accept() or
globus_xio_register_accept() will initialize a new handle: 



--------


    globus_xio_server_t         server;
    globus_xio_handle_t         handle;
    globus_result_t             res;

    res = globus_xio_server_create(&server_handle, NULL, stack);
    res = globus_xio_server_accept(&handle, server);


--------

Once the handle is initialized it should be opened in order to perform
read and write operations upon it. It the handle is a client then a
"contact string" is required. This string represents the target that the
user wishes to open: 



--------

    globus_xio_attr_t           attr;
    char *                      contact_string = "file:/etc/groups";

    globus_xio_attr_init(&attr);
    globus_xio_open(xio_handle, contact_string, attr);
    globus_xio_attr_destroy(attr);

--------

note: attrs can be used to color the behaviors of a handle. For a
conceptual understanding, they are not important and a user is free to
simple pass NULL wherever an attr is required. 

Now that we have an open handle to a file we can read or write data to
it with either globus_xio_read() or globus_xio_write(). Once we are
finished performing IO operations on the handle globus_xio_close(handle)
should be called. 


[[x-xio-user-quick-start-PayOff]]
=== Pay Off ===

This may seem like quite a bit of effort for simple reading a file, and
it is. However the advantages become clear when exploring the swapping
of other drivers. In the above example it would be trivial to change the
IO operations from file IO to TCP, or HTTP, or ftp. All the the user
would need to do is change the driver name string passed to
globus_xio_load_driver() and the contact string passed to
globus_xio_target_init(). This can easily be done at runtime, as the
program link:../globus_xio_example.c[globus_xio_example.c] demonstrates.


So the little program link:../globus_xio_example.c[globus_xio_example.c]
has the ability to be any reading client or server (HTTP, ftp, TCP,
file, etc) as long as the proper drivers are in the LD_LIBRARY_PATH. 

