
[[xio-developer-archdes]]
== Architecture and design overview ==


[[x-xio-driver-quick-start-Introduction-arch]]
=== Introduction ===

This document shall explain the external view of the Globus XIO
architecture. Globus XIO is broken down into two main components,
framework and drivers. The following picture illustrates the
architecture:


[[xio_arch]]

.XIO Architecture
--
image::xio_arch.jpg[align="center"]
--

[[x-xio-driver-quick-start-Framework]]
=== Framework ===

The Globus XIO framework manages IO operation requests that an
application makes via the user API. The framework does no work to
deliver the data in an IO operation nor does it manipulate the data. All
of that work is done by the drivers. The framework's job is to manage
requests and map them to the drivers interface. It is the drivers
themselves that are responsible for manipulating and transporting the
data. 


[[x-xio-driver-quick-start-Drivers]]
=== Drivers ===

A driver is the component of Globus XIO that is responsible for
manipulating and transporting the users data. There are two types of
drivers, transform and transport. Transform drivers are those that
manipulate the data buffers passed to it via the user API and the XIO
framework. Transport drivers are those that are capable of sending the
data over a wire. 

Drivers are grouped into stacks, that is, one driver on top of another.
When an IO operation is requested the Globus XIO framework passes the
operation request to every driver in the order they are in the stack.
When the bottom level driver (the transport driver) finishes shipping
the data, it passes the data request back to the XIO framework. Globus
XIO will then deliver the request back up the stack in this manner until
it reaches the top, at which point the application will be notified that
there request is completed. 

In a driver stack there can only be one transport driver. The reason for
this is that the transport driver is the one responsible for sending or
receiving the data. Once this type of operation is performed it makes no
sense to pass the request down the stack, as the data has just been
transfered. It is now time to pass the operation back up the stack. 

There can be many transform drivers in any given driver stack. A
transform driver is one that can manipulate the requested operations as
they pass. Some good examples of transform drivers are security wrappers
and compression. However, a transport driver can also be one that adds
additional protocol. For example a stack could consist of a TCP
transport driver and an HTTP transform driver. The HTTP driver would be
responsible for marshaling the HTTP protocol and the TCP driver would be
responsible for shipping that protocol over the wire. 


[[x-xio-driver-quick-start-Example]]
=== Example ===

In the following picture we illustrate a user application using Globus
XIO to speak the GridFTP protocol across a TCP connection:


[[xio_app]]

.XIO Application
--
image::xio_app.jpg[align="center"]
--
The user has built a stack consisting of one transform driver and one
transport driver. TCP is the transport driver in this stack, and as all
transport modules must be, it is at the bottom of the stack. Above TCP
is the GSI transform driver which performs necessary messaging to
authenticate a user and the integrity of the data. 

The first thing the user application will do after building the stack is
call the XIO user API function globus_xio_open(). The Globus XIO
framework will create internal data structures for tracking this
operation and then pass the operation request to the GSI driver. The GSI
driver has nothing to do before the underlying stack has opened a handle
so it simply passes the request down the stack. The request is thereby
passed to the TCP driver. The TCP driver will then execute the socket
level transport code contained within it to establish a connection to
the given contact string. 

Once the TCP connection has been established the TCP driver will notify
the XIO framework that it has completed its request and thereby the GSI
driver will be notified that the open operation it had previously passed
down the stack has now completed. At this point the GSI driver will
start the authentication processes (note that at this point the user
does not yet have an open handle). The GSI driver has an open handle and
upon it several sends and receives are performed to authenticate the
connection. If the GSI driver is not satisfied with the authentication
process it closes the handle it has to the stack below it and tells the
XIO framework that it has completed the open request with an error. If
it is satisfied it simply tells the XIO framework that it has completed
the open operation. The user is now notified that the open operation
completed, and if it was successful they now have an open handle. 

Other operations work in much the same way. When a user posts a read the
read request is first delivered to the GSI driver. The GSI driver will
wrap the buffer and pass the modified buffer down the stack. The
framework will then deliver the write request with the newly modified
buffer to the TCP driver. The TCP driver will write the data across the
socket mapped to this handle. When it finishes it notifies the
framework, which notifies the GSI driver. The GSI driver has nothing
more to do so it notifies the framework that it is complete and the
framework then notifies the user. 


[[x-xio-driver-quick-start-Driver-Interface]]
=== Driver Interface ===

There is a well defined interface to a driver. Drivers are modular
components with specific tasks. The purpose of drivers in the Globus XIO
library is extensibility. As more and more protocols are developed, more
and more drivers can be written to implement these protocols. As new
drivers are written they can be added to Globus XIO as either statically
linked libraries or dynamically loaded libraries. In the case of dynamic
loading it is not even necessary to recompile existing source code. Each
driver has a unique name according to the Globus XIO driver naming
convention. A program simply needs to be aware of this name (this can be
passed in via the command line) and the Globus XIO framework will be
responsible for loading the driver. 

[NOTE]
--
The above example is simplified for the purposes of understanding. There
are optimizations built into Globus XIO which alter the course of events
outlined above. However, conceptually the above is accurate. 

--
